# vba-challenge
VBA coding project

**Objective**

In this challenge our bootcamp created a script that looped through stocks for each year giving year's changes from the opening price at the beginning of the year to the close price at the end of the year. We also included the percentage change from the opening price at the beginning and the closing price at the end. Each stock returned the greatest percentage increase, decrease and total volume. We made sure taht the script ran once per year, on every worksheet. Negative yearly changes were highlighted in red while positive changes were highlighted in green. This code was tested on a much smaller data set to make sure that it worked.

**Method**

I first declared my variables or buckets. I wrote it so that the code at the top would happen to every worksheet before the nested loop. I filled the buckets or variables. I used if then statements and functions. I made sure percentages and other values were formatted correctly. And finally I made sure that the text fit in each cell. In my code, you can see where I tried message boxes to make sure things worked. You can also see the evolution of my code in my commentary where I started small and got bigger via scale.

**Results**

*In the dataset for 2018:*

The greatest percentage increase could be found using ticker THB with a value of 141.42%

The greatest percentage decrease was for ticker RKS at a value of -90.02%

The greatest total volume was with stock QKN at 1689539560106

*In the dataset for 2019:*

The greatest percentage increase could be found using ticker RYU with a value of 190.03%

The greatest percentage decrease was for ticker RKS at a value of -91.60%

The greatest total volume was with stock QKN at 4373008528422

*In the dataset for 2020:*

The greatest percentage increase could be found using ticker YDI with a value of 188.76%

The greatest percentage decrease was for ticker VNG at a value of -89.05%

The greatest total volume was with stock QKN at 3452956568861

**Citations**

Function to find last row was found at thespreadsheetguru.com

Advised to use a Right Function for each year by Sean Houston

Used stackoverflow for percentage formatting

Used excel-easy.com/vba to find color formatting

Autofit columns found at learn.microsoft.com

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
